PROPOSAL 0001 - Creation of proposal process (#4577)
prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator: Documentation/proposals/0001/README.md

[proposal](https://github.com/tinkerbell/proposals) that I would like to rename
to Proposal. Every Proposal will have its own directory with a markdown file inside.

### Metadata

The Proposal is written in markdown and includes metadata in the header of the file:

* `ID`: identifies the Proposal
* `Title`: title of the Proposal
* `Status`: description of the current state for the Proposal
* `Authors`: in the format of a list of `Name <email@emai.com>`

Here is a complete example:

```yaml
---
id: 0001
title: Request for discussion HOWTO
pr: 2
status: ideation
authors: Gianluca Arbezzano <gianarb92@gmail.com>
---
```

### Lifecycle

I don’t want to rewrite the lifecycle here because the one in use by [Oxide
Computer](https://oxide.computer/blog/rfd-1-requests-for-discussion/#rfd-life-cycle)
looks familiar and is functional for our purpose. They wrote the lifecycle in
detail and, for now, we will follow it as it is.

What follows here is copy/pasted from ["RFD 1 Requests for
Discussion"](https://oxide.computer/blog/rfd-1-requests-for-discussion/) and all
the credit goes to [Oxide Computer](https://oxide.computer).

~~~markdown

### RFD Metadata and State

> At the start of every RFD document, we'd like to include a brief amount of metadata. The metadata format is based on the python-markdown2 metadata format. It'd look like:

Reviewer: Not sure how much difference there is, but maybe going for a Hugo markdown metadata format would make more sense, since our website is deployed using Hugo and it'd be easier to publish the RFDs on the website like that (if we ever choose to)

Reviewer 2: :+1:

Author: given that these lines are referenced as "coming from the oxide computer project", I'm hesitant to change them.  I did however call that out a bit stronger and mentioned in "our own" documentation about using Hugo Static site generator content.  Let me know if this works.  Changed in 8d6c3c0.

Author: @metalmatze @simonpasquier , thoughts?

---
id: 0001
title: How to write a Proposal
status: published
authors: Michael Deffenbaugh <mike@zeroent.net>
---
This proposal workflow was taken directly from the [tinkerbell project](https://github.com/tinkerbell/proposals) and full credit goes to them.  Visit the linked repo for more details.
## Summary

_(**These notes in parenthesis describe the purpose of each section.** The
summary contains a short summary of the Proposal. Ideally it has to be useful for
people who do not know what problem the Proposal is attempting to solve. The summary
gives readers context and helps them evaluate if this is a topic that interests
or affects them.)_

This is the first Proposal and it covers:

* What Proposals are and why we need them
* How to write an Proposal
* When to avoid a Proposal
* Lifecycle of an Proposal

> Rename the [proposal](https://github.com/tinkerbell/proposals) repository to Proposal.

Reviewer 2: it can probably be removed?

Author: Are you saying just line 23 or also 20 and 21; give this proposal details the proposal lifecycle process, we'd likely want to leave L21.  Obviously pulling out L23

Author: @simonpasquier thoughts?

Reviewer: I'm guessing just L23.

Author: resolved in 65ab2b951cfafd7c8b8c27a427369ebab5910081

## Goals and non-Goals

_(Goals and non-Goals contains two bullet point sections that briefly describe
the end goals of what is being discussed and what is out-of-scope or otherwise
not open for discussion.)_

Goals

* Explain what a Proposal is, how and when to use it
* Share the Proposal lifecycle
* Be the first Proposal for the project

Non-Goals

* Offering all of the automation, scripts and bots described as part of the Proposal
  lifecycle

> * Converting the already open PR against the
>     [proposal](https://github.com/tinkerbell/proposals) repo to this new format

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Converting the existing
    [design proposals](../designs) to this new format.
```

## Content

_(This is the main section. It contains the core of the discussion, the design
you are proposing, the changes this imposes and the new features it provides.
This should include a high-level overview of how this proposal can be
implemented.)_

### Why a Proposal is needed and what it looks like

Discussing and deciding how and why a feature or a piece of code should or
should not be written is an important part of the engineering process.

> As an open source project, Tinkerbell needs to have a public place where

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an open source project, the Prometheus Operator needs to have a public place where
```

community members, contributors can share their ideas in detail, asking for
help, feedback and more in general to spot problems addressable as early as
possible.

A maintainer can ask contributors to write an Proposal in order to open a discussion
about a feature that looks trivial, helping contributors to sit down and think
about the design of the request or the code they will build. It is a way to
translate Slack discussions to something that won’t get lost for example.

Currently, we have a repo called
[proposal](https://github.com/tinkerbell/proposals) that I would like to rename

> to Proposal. Every Proposal will have its own directory with a markdown file inside.

Reviewer 2: should it be removed?

Author: yup, removing.

1. Summary
2. Goals and non-goals
3. Content
4. System-context-diagram
5. APIs
6. Alternatives

### Tooling

I would like to get a generated version of the Proposal in markdown with a table in
the homepage listing all of the Proposals with their status. This will allow us to
quickly identify those open for discussion.

### Credits, links and inspiration

* Previously designed Proposal workflows that are not publicly available
* [Kubernetes
    KEPS](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps)
* [https://www.industrialempathy.com/posts/design-docs-at-google/](https://www.industrialempathy.com/posts/design-docs-at-google/)
* [https://oxide.computer/blog/rfd-1-requests-for-discussion/#rfd-metadata-and-state](https://oxide.computer/blog/rfd-1-requests-for-discussion/#rfd-metadata-and-state)
* [https://github.com/crossplane/crossplane/blob/master/design/README.md](https://github.com/crossplane/crossplane/blob/master/design/README.md)
* [https://github.com/joyent/rfd](https://github.com/joyent/rfd)

### When you can avoid a Proposal

Proposals are not necessary when small fixes are made or minor features are

> introduced.  An Proposal is not necessary in when the community is satisfied with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
introduced.  A Proposal is not necessary in when the community is satisfied with the
```

> discussions happening in other channels like Slack, voice, or in pull requests
> and issues.

Reviewer 2: (nit) I would order the list by preference

```suggestion
discussions happening in other channels like GitHub issues, pull requests, meetings such as contributors office hours or Slack.
```

## System-context-diagram

> _(How does this feature or discussion fit into the big picture? Tinkerbell, like

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_(How does this feature or discussion fit into the big picture? The Prometheus Operator, like
```

many other modern software stacks, have a high level of interaction between
component, including external components. A system context diagram helps the
reader visually understand how this Proposal plays a role.)_

## APIs

> _(Describe any API changes, including new APIs, here with JSON, YAML, `curl`, or
> GRPC Interface examples.)_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_(Describe any API changes, including new or updated CRDs.)_
```
